Every time that you open Claude, it half
remembers you. Your name, maybe your job
title, but nothing that actually matters
for your work. So, you waste half of
your session reexplaining the same
context you explained last Tuesday. I
built a three-layer system that makes
Claude take notes on itself. So, every
session, it picks up exactly where it
left off last time. No reexlaining, no
repeated mistakes, just an AI that
genuinely gets smarter the more that you
use it. Let me show you exactly how I
set it up. Now, here's the problem with
most of the AI tools you use today,
specifically the memory piece. So, if
you're using chatbt, Gemini, Claude,
etc., what's happening is it's
remembering the top of the iceberg. So,
this is the iceberg of memories, and
this is what it remembers. So, it
remembers your name, your title, maybe
some of your preferences, but these are
all general and minimal and what the AI
remembers, and it's applied across all
conversations. But what we care about is
the bottom of the iceberg. So, the area
where the memories are truly valuable
for your work. And these are things such
as that your client hates long emails.
Or that when your boss says, "Keep it
tight," they're referring to keeping it
under one page. Or maybe it remembers
specific terminology that your team
likes to use for certain projects. These
are all things that are relevant for an
AI to remember, but often times are
excluded when you're just using chatb
Claude or Gemini. Now, the three-layer
system I'm going to share with you is
actually going to fix this problem and
do a lot more. And the benefit of this
system is the compounding effect that I
mentioned previously. So we're going
from a tool to an asset. And what that
means is every time you come back to
this specific AI, it's not just
improving day over day, but the AI is
actually improving itself. There's very
little you have to do for this AI to
incrementally get better. So what is
this magical three layer system that's
going to do all these cool things for
you? Well, this is that three layers. So
we have layer 1, two, and three. And
I'll walk you through each in detail
later on, but I'll give you a quick
overview now. And it's important to note
that this three- layer system can only
be used effectively inside of cloud
code, cloud co-work or codecs. And it
can only be used in these specific tools
because these tools can actually read
and write files on your desktop. And
that's a core component to actually
having a successful AI that remembers
things across sessions. Now, with that
caveat out of the way, the three layers
we have, so the first layer here is the
one that you've used time in and time
out. So that's going to be the always on
default. So this is readily available
inside of Chatbt, Claude, and Gemini in
the basic chat apps. But once we get
past layer 1, that's where real value is
unlocked and you can create AI that
improves on itself, but also it's only
available in those free tools that I
mentioned. So as we move down this
stack, we go from broad memories to very
specific memories that are usually more
valuable. So for layer 2, the mission,
so this is going to be a file that's
dedicated to each folder on your desktop
or wherever you've saved these. So when
the AI opens that folder, it initially
knows exactly what its mission is and
its purpose and doing things inside its
folder are. After that, we have layer
three, which are training materials. So,
these are going to be training materials
associated to what good looks like. So,
if an AI is doing a task for you, it
needs to know what good looks like so it
can follow your best practices. Okay.
So, if you're enjoying this, you're
going to enjoy two other things. First
off, Blow is a 30-day AI insight series,
completely free. You'll get 30 insights
in your inbox so I can apply AI to your
business and your work. The second thing
is if you'd like to work with me, blower
a series of offerings to see if there's
a good fit from the two of us, such as a
private AI community for business
leaders and owners or one-on-one AI
coaching. With that being said, let's
get back in the video. And some of you
may ask, well, why don't we just take
all three of these layers and then shove
them all into the AI's head at once?
There's many reasons as to why this is a
bad idea, but the primary one is we're
currently fighting uphill a battle with
AI, which is its context window. In
simpler terms, it's the AI's memory. So
how much stuff you can shove into the
AI's head without its intelligence
degrading. And with this specific
structure having these three layers
separated, what we can do is we can do a
thing called a technical term called
progressive disclosure, but we don't
really care about the technical term.
What's happening here is we're what
we're doing is we're exposing data to
the AI incrementally. So it first looks
at this these instructions. Then it
looks at the mission. It doesn't have to
look at all the layer three stuff. It
only has to get a little bit of layer 3
to achieve the task at hand. So, we're
only showing the AI what it needs when
it needs it. And this unlocks a lot of
intelligence from the AI and allows it
to achieve really complex tasks that it
wasn't able to do historically. Now,
let's look at layer 1. So, as a quick
recap, as I mentioned previously, this
is the always on default. And the way
that you can find this in cloud
co-worker codeex, I'll quickly show you.
So, this is co-work here. So, if you
select your name down here, you go to
settings. Once you're in settings,
you'll go to general. Under general, you
have this section here that says
personal preferences. This box is where
you put in your global instructions. So
this is layer one, the stuff that it
remembers across all conversations. And
this here is codeex. It's a very similar
process. So once you go back, you select
your settings here at the bottom left.
Once you've gone into your settings, you
want to go to personalization. And once
you're inside personalization, and these
are the custom instructions where you
put in your layer 1 information. So
that's exactly what they look like. Now,
what do you put inside of layer 1? Well,
there's four things that I usually
recommend. Two of which are kind of
mandatory, and the other two are kind of
optional. So the first two that I
recommend always including is going to
be something in relation to your role.
So what do you do? who you are and what
industry you work inside of. You want to
keep all of this underneath probably
five lines or so. Reason being is
because again, this is going to be
shared across every conversation and you
want to minimize the amount of
information you're sharing. It just
needs to be stuff that really matters to
you. So after you've shared your role,
then you want to share your
communication style. So do you prefer
things that are concise, thorough? Do
you like formal language, informal
language? You can add some of that stuff
into this section. And then the optional
things here are going to be behavior
rules and safety rails. And then for
behavior rules, we're simply telling the
AI how to behave in certain situations.
As an example, maybe you want the AI to
ask you clarifying questions before it
does anything. So it creates a plan and
you know what that plan is. And after
we've established a behavior, we then
have the safety rails. So the safety
rails again are optional. Usually people
that are starting out using these tools,
especially those like cloud co-work or
codecs where they can write and read
files on your desktop, they have some
hesitation and concern on the AI
overwriting things when it shouldn't.
The first thing you should do is always
have backups. So if the AI does make a
mistake, you have backups and you're not
worried about it. But as you start to
use these tools more often, you start to
build confidence in their ability not to
mess things up. So over time, you may
actually remove these safety rules. And
one rule could be never to delete or
overwrite files without asking me for
explicit approval. This is an okay thing
to do to start out, but for my opinion,
it really messes up the user experience
because you're always having to approve
everything, and that takes away the
autonomous ability of the AI to get more
leverage from it. So once you've built
confidence in the AI's ability to do
tasks, you can then gradually remove
these rails over time. So that's layer
one. Now let's go on to layer two. This
is the mission. So it's important to
note that this mission file is dedicated
to every folder you have inside of your
desktop. So the parent folder the AI
works inside of is going to have a
mission file. And that mission file,
depending on the tool you're using, is
going to be either called a cloud.md
file or it's going to be called an
agents.mmd file. So if you're using
codecs, it'll be agents.mmd. If you're
using using cloud co-work, it'll be
cloud.md. And the AI is always going to
read this file before it does anything
else. So the basic structure of this
file is going to have three components.
So it's going to have a purpose, a tree,
and rules. The purpose at the top of
this file is going to tell the AI what
work happens inside of this folder.
After that's been established, we then
tell the AI what's inside of the folder.
Because inside of this folder, there may
be a series of subfolders and subfiles.
So, we should tell the AI at a high
level what's inside of here and also
what each of those subfolders are meant
to be used for. And then finally, we
have the rules. So, the rules, the
things the AI has to follow when doing
tasks inside of this folder. And one
final addition we're going to add to
this file that sits next to the rules
section is going to make all of this 10
times more valuable because AI is going
to update itself over time. And that's
actually a note-taking feature. And
that's what this is here. At the very
bottom of our cloudmd file, we're going
to have an additional section called
note-taking. And this is where the AI
self-improves over time. What I'll do is
I'll show you what a actual cloud file
looks like. But quickly, let's review
what this does. So the purpose of this
section is when the AI sees a
correction, a preference or a pattern,
it's going to automatically turn that
into a note for future reference. And
it's going to do that in two locations.
Either it's going to do it in a context
file, which we'll talk about these later
on, or it's going to add it to the
claw.md that I just shared with you. The
way it's going to do that, it's going to
do it in a concise way. So, it's going
to have a oneline lesson learned. It's
going to be dated, so it knows when that
lesson was learned, and it's going to be
written in plain language. Now, an
important thing to note here is that if
the AI notices that there are three or
more lessons learned that are similar,
it's going to create a new context file.
So, in future sessions when its memory
is wiped, it can go back and it can see
all these lessons learned over time. And
this is where we have the self-improving
loop that starts to get created. Now,
we've talked a lot about the claw.md.
So, let me actually just show you what
one looks like. And it's important to
note before I actually walk through this
is that you can have AI create these for
you. So don't be overwhelmed by the
complexity associated to how much
information is in here and also how it's
structured because all you have to do is
give AI a pointer and it can create this
file for you. And I'll talk you through
exactly how to do that in a second. Now
for this example, what we're going to
have is we have a folder dedicated to a
client. So this is client A in this
folder. So this cloud.md file is solely
focused on helping them do work for this
client. So we give it a purpose. The
purpose of this folder is to do all the
work related to client A. And we give
some context on who client A is. So we
say client A is a regional healthcare
group with 12 locations. The main
engagement we currently have with this
client is focusing on reducing the
patient wait time. The main contact for
this client is Sarah who's a COO. And
here's some preferences that Sarah has.
Now after the purpose, we have the tree.
So this tree here tells the AI exactly
what's inside of this folder and what
subfolders are here. So you can see we
have a few subfolders. We have one
subfolder that's the context folder.
Then we have three other subfolders that
are focused on the actual data itself.
I'll spend more time later on talking
about these context files. But just note
that these files in this folder are
dedicated to showing the AI what good
work looks like and how to do it well.
So that's the tree section. And below
this we have the rules and note-taking.
So the rules are simply telling the AI
what it needs to do in certain c certain
situations. For example, if the AI is
doing any client-f facing work, it needs
to look at the context folder and this
specific file in that folder to
understand who the client actually is.
Another good one here is that when the
AI decides to create or discover new
files inside of this parent folder, it
needs to update the tree above. So, this
tree will always be updated because the
AI is always going to update it. And
this final point in the rules, we'll
talk about in a second because we need
to talk about note-taking first on how
this actually got there. So, note-taking
is the self-improving loop that we have
for the AI. And in here we're explicitly
stating that the AI after each task it
needs to log any corrections,
preferences or patterns it learned
through that process of that task. Now
when it writes those lessons learned, it
needs to write them into two specific
locations. Either it's going to write it
to a context file, these files that I
mentioned above, or it's going to add it
to this specific file, the cloud.md
file. And when it does it, it needs to
do it as a oneline with a date in plain
language. And here is the example that I
was just talking about. So this is a
lesson learned. It learned that Sarah
wants cost impacts in the first sentence
of any report and it learned this on
March 4th. And again at the end we state
that if there are three or more lessons
learned that are similar or related, we
need you to create a new context file
and then update the tree after you've
created it. So this is a basic claw.md
file. Remember this is the mission for
the AI. Anytime that you open the AI in
this folder, it reads this first thing.
And the beautiful part about this file
is that we can have AI create it for us.
And this is the basic prompt you can use
to have AI create this file for you
following the best practices that I just
shared. So what you're going to do is
you're going to open up cloud co-work if
you're creating cloud.mmd file. And
you're going to open up cloud co-work
and the specific folder that's for the
project you want the AI to work on. Once
you've opened that folder, you want to
paste in this prompt and do one other
thing. So once you've pasted in the
prompt, you're going to put on dictation
on your computer. So you're going to
turn dictation on. So you go from speech
to text. This is the thing I recommend
for really any interaction with AI, but
in this case, definitely where you're
going to tell the AI what's the intent
of this folder. What type of work needs
to get done here? And you explain in as
much detail as possible. Once you've
done that, hit enter and the AI will do
the rest. But I'm sure you're
interested, so I'll walk you through the
prompt here. So the prompt is simply
saying that I want the AI to research
the best practices for creating cloud.
MD files as of today's date. So I'd
actually recommend instead of just
having this here, you would actually put
today's date. So for me that's going to
be March 5th. So I'd put March 5th here.
After I've done this, I'm then going to
ask the AI to look at what's already
inside of this folder. So you should
probably add additional files in this
folder for that specific work that it's
going to do there. So instead of instead
of just pasting this prompt in, you're
going to paste the prompt in, drop in a
bunch of files and folders. It's going
to look at those and then do the
research based off of best practices.
After it's done the research, it's then
going to come in here and create that
cloudmd file following the four sections
that I mentioned previously. And most
importantly, we added this section here,
which is saying that we need to keep the
overall file under 100 lines. The reason
being is that remember this AI is going
to look at this specific file every time
it does a task. So, we need to make sure
that this file specifically is
information dense and contains
everything it needs to then go gather
other information for certain tasks. So,
we're minimizing the amount of context
we're filling in the AI's head any given
moment. And that's our mission section.
So, that's layer two. Now, we're going
to layer three, which is the actual
training materials. training AI on what
good looks like and how to do things
well. So let's take a look at the
overall structure of the folder. So at
the very top we have the project folder.
So this is the parent folder that
everything sits inside of. At the very
top of the parent folder, we have the
claw.md file that we just talked about.
So this is the mission the AI is going
to follow when doing tasks. In addition
to that, we're going to have the context
folder and then a bunch of other folders
that are going to be needed for the AI
to do its task. The primary difference
between the context subfolder and all
the other subfolders is the context
folder is teaching the AI how to do
something well. The remaining folders
are simply necessary for the AI to
achieve the task at all. So when you
think about adding files to the
subfolder for context, think about
quality standards. So what makes
something good for this specific task?
That's what you add into this folder. So
then we need to ask ourselves what is
actually inside of a context file. How
is it structured? Well, there's three
layers. So, at the very top of this, we
have the header. So, here we're going to
tell the AI for this context file
specifically, what is this file for and
when should you actually use it. After
that, we're going to go into the
content. And this is where all the
standards, preferences, and examples
sit. So, the AI looks at this to see
what good looks like, any of the
specific preferences associated to good.
And finally, we have the learning
section. So, the learning section
usually actually starts empty. So, this
should be empty in the beginning because
no lessons have been learned as of yet.
But when the AI does learn lessons, it's
incrementally going to add lessons
learned to this section here. That's the
general structure. So let me actually
show you what an example looks like. So
this is a client profile inside of the
context folder. So the purpose of this
specific file in the context folder is
to teach the AI preferences about the
client and for the client. So at the
very top, we need to give the AI some
understanding of what this file is for.
So we explain this is for client A.
We're going to give you some background
on client A as well as communication
preference in relation to that client.
And we then tell the AI when it needs to
use this information specifically when
it's creating client facing
deliverables. So that's the top portion.
After this, we give some basic
information around key context and some
preferences each one of those contacts
have. Below that, we have communication
preferences and a series of other
things. Some examples for communication
preferences is the client prefers that
their emails stay under 300 words. They
also prefer plain language. And here's
some key vocab that that client uses
specifically in relation to the work
that they do. So after communication
preferences, we have what good looks
like. So if the AI is going to create
deliverables for the client, it needs to
look at these examples of what good
looks like. So we have a a time report
and then we have an update email, both
of which have been approved by the
client on the quality. So the AI can
look at these examples, gather
inspiration and adapt those structures
and preferences to the future
deliverables it creates. And then
finally, one of the most important parts
of this entire thing are the lessons
learned throughout this process. So
remember this starts empty, but let's
assume the AI has learned a series of
things along the way. Some interesting
findings the AI found and added to this
specific context file is Sarah prefers
charts over tables and Mark prefers to
have the raw data associated to the
chart when we present to them. And
again, the beautiful part about this is
the AI self-improves and then references
these lessons learned for future
iterations when working with its client
or whatever task you're working on. And
this is layer three, showing AI how to
do things well. So now that we've talked
through all three layers, I want to show
you what the overall system looks like
at one shot. And I can promise you if
you understand this overall structure
and start applying it to your own work
with AI, the amount of leverage you're
going to create, not just in your job,
but your business is going to be
massive. So we always start with layer
1. So layer 1, remember, are the always
on defaults. So the basic things AI
remembers about you across all sessions.
Keep this to under five to six lines.
After layer 1, we then have layer two.
And this is where the real value begins.
And remember the mission file, the
cloud.mmd or agents.mmd if you're using
codecs has to be inside of its own
folder. So the parent folder that where
all the tasks occur for this specific
project has its own cloud.mmd. Inside
that cloudmd, the AI is always going to
look at this when it opens this folder.
And it's going to have the purpose in
the file. It's going to have the tree
structure for the subfolders inside of
the overall parent folder as well as the
rules AI has to follow and any notes
that it's self-improved on because again
this is the self-improving loop and
where it begins. After layer two, we
then have layer three. So this is where
the context files sit. So we're teaching
AI how to do things well. So we have
standards, examples, learnings, etc. In
addition to the context subfolder and
the files inside of it, we have the
working files and working subfolders. So
this is the data that AI just needs to
do its job. And by combining all of
these and the AI starts to execute on
tasks, it benefits from this learning
loop. So when it learns things over
time, it can add those lessons learned
either to the cloud.mmd file or to the
context files. If it gets three or more
that are related, it then creates its
own new context file, updates the tree
inside of the cloud.MD, and updates the
stuff inside of the context subfolder.
And the beautiful part about all of this
is in the next session when you open
this up, all of the quality compounds
over time because the AI remembers what
good looks like, the preferences that
you have, and any lessons that it's
learned over time. Now, what I want you
to do is I want you to take 20 minutes
right now. Open up Cloud Co-work, create
a single folder on your desktop, and run
through this process. It's only going to
take you probably 20 minutes. So, the
first three minutes is setting up your
global instructions for layer 1. After
you've set up the always on defaults,
then you need to do layer two. And
remember, AI can help you create this.
So, all you need to do is drop in a
series of folders and subfiles inside of
the parent folder. Give the AI the
prompt that I just showed you, and it'll
create the file for you. After you've
set up layer 2, you're then going to go
into layer 3. And again, this can be
augmented with AI. All you have to do is
create the subfolder, and then add in a
series of files. Ideally, it's going to
be a subset of three to five diverse
examples for a specific example task.
You give those files to an AI and you
then ask it to extract out what makes
these specific files good. Once it
extracted those meta lessons, you can
then have it create those specific
context files based on the structure I
just shared with you. And that's it. So,
as a reminder, two quick things. First
off, Blow is a 30-day AI insight series,
completely free. You'll get 30 insights
in your inbox so I can apply AI to your
business and your work. The second thing
is if you'd like to work with me, blower
a series of offerings, see if there's a
good fit between the two of us. Now that
your AI gets smarter every session,
there's one thing you need to stop
doing. Asking it questions first. I know
that sounds backwards, but this video
right here shows you exactly why it
works. So, go ahead and click it. Click
that video.